Results of Operations (continued)

The results of the Investment Management business 
are driven by the period-end, average level and mix 
of assets managed and the level of activity in client 
accounts.  The overall level of AUM for a given 
period is determined by:

• 
• 

• 

the beginning level of AUM;
the net flows of new assets during the period 
resulting from new business wins and existing 
client enrichments, reduced by the loss of clients 
and withdrawals; and
the impact of market price appreciation or 
depreciation, the impact of any acquisitions or 
divestitures and foreign exchange rates.

The mix of AUM is determined principally by client 
asset allocation decisions among equities, fixed 
income, index, liability-driven investments and 
alternative investments.

Managed equity assets typically generate higher 
percentage fees than liability-driven investments and 
fixed-income assets.  Also, actively managed assets 
typically generate higher management fees than 
indexed or passively managed assets of the same 
type.  

Management fees are typically subject to fee 
schedules based on the overall level of assets 
managed for a single client or by individual asset 
class and style.  This is most prevalent for 
institutional assets where amounts we manage for 
individual clients are typically large.  

A key driver of organic growth in investment 
management and performance fees is the amount of 
net new AUM flows.  Overall market conditions are 
also key drivers, with a significant long-term 
economic driver being growth of global financial 
assets.  

Performance fees are generally calculated as a 
percentage of a portfolio’s performance in excess of a 
benchmark index or a peer group’s performance.  

Net interest revenue is determined by loan and 
deposit volumes and the interest rate spread between 
customer rates and internal funds transfer rates on 
loans and deposits.  Expenses in this business are 
mainly driven by staffing costs, incentives and 
distribution and servicing expense.  

 24 BNY Mellon

Review of financial results

Investment management and performance fees are 
dependent on the overall level and mix of AUM and 
the management fees expressed in basis points (one-
hundredth of one percent) charged for managing 
those assets.  Assets under management were $1.63 
trillion at Dec. 31, 2015 compared with $1.69 trillion 
at Dec. 31, 2014, a decrease of 4%.  The decrease 
resulted from the unfavorable impact of a stronger 
U.S. dollar, net outflows and lower market values, 
partially offset by the January 2015 acquisition of 
Cutwater.  

Net long-term outflows were $17 billion in 2015 
driven by equity and index investments, partially 
offset by continued strength in liability-driven 
investments.  Net short-term outflows were $18 
billion in 2015.

Total revenue was $3.9 billion in 2015, a decrease of 
1% compared with 2014.  The decrease primarily 
reflects the unfavorable impact of a stronger U.S. 
dollar, net outflows and lower performance fees, 
partially offset by higher net interest revenue, the 
impact of the Cutwater acquisition and strategic 
initiatives, and lower money market fee waivers.

Revenue generated in the Investment Management 
business included 42% from non-U.S. sources in 
2015 compared with 44% in 2014.

Investment management fees in the Investment 
Management business were $3.3 billion in 2015, a 
decrease of 2%, or an increase of 3% on a constant 
currency basis (Non-GAAP), compared with 2014.  
The increase primarily reflects lower money market 
fee waivers, the impact of the Cutwater acquisition 
and strategic initiatives, and higher equity market 
values, partially offset by net outflows.

In 2015, 37% of investment management fees in the 
Investment Management business were generated 
from managed mutual fund fees.  These fees are 
based on the daily average net assets of each fund and 
the management fee paid by that fund.  Managed 
mutual fund fee revenue decreased 2% in 2015 
compared with 2014.  The decrease primarily reflects 
net outflows and the unfavorable impact of a stronger 
U.S. dollar, partially offset by lower money market 
fee waivers.

