 

Competition  
 

The investment management business is highly competitive, with points of differentiation including investment performance, the 
range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, the depth and continuity of relationships, quality 
of service and the level of fees charged for services. We compete with a large number of investment management firms, commercial 
banks, investment banks, broker dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. We believe that the quality 
and diversity of our investment styles, product types and channels of distribution enable us to compete effectively in the investment 
management business. We also believe being an independent investment manager is a competitive advantage, as our business model 
avoids  conflicts  that  are  inherent  within  institutions  that  both  distribute  and/or  serve  investment  products  and  manage  investment 
products.  Lastly,  we believe continued  execution  against our  multi-year  strategy will  further  strengthen  our  long-term  competitive 
position. 
 
Management Contracts 
 

We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with funds and other clients. Fees vary with the 
type of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and 
alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, money market and stable value accounts, as well as certain ETFs. 
Investment management contracts are generally terminable upon thirty or fewer days’ notice. Typically, retail investors may withdraw 
their  funds  at  any  time  without  prior  notice.  Institutional  and  private  wealth  management  clients  may  elect  to  terminate  their 
relationship with us or reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management with very short notice periods. 
 
Available Information  
 

We file current and periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC, copies of which can be obtained from 
the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference 
Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 
 

The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers 
that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. We make available free of charge on our Web site, www.invesco.com, our 
Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed 
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable 
after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 
 
Item 1A.  Risk Factors 
 

Volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, can negatively 
affect Invesco’s revenues and may continue to do so.  
 
The  capital  and  credit  markets  have  been  experiencing  substantial  volatility  and  disruption  since  2007.  While  these  disruptions 
moderated to some extent following the March 2009 lows in equity markets, historical norms have not returned and the potential for 
extreme disruptions remains. These market events have materially impacted our results of operations, and may continue to do so, and 
could materially impact our financial condition and liquidity. In this regard: 
 

•  The  volatility  of  global  market  conditions  around  the  world  has  resulted,  and  may  continue  to  result,  in  significant 
volatility  in  our  assets  under  management  and  in  our  revenues,  driven  by  market  value  fluctuations  on  our  managed 
portfolios. 
In addition to the impact of the market values on client portfolios, the illiquidity and volatility of both the global fixed 
income  and  equity  markets  could  negatively  affect  our  ability  to  manage  client  inflows  and  outflows  from  pooled 
investment vehicles or to timely meet client redemption requests. 

• 

•  Our money market funds have always maintained a $1.00 net asset value (NAV); however, we do not guarantee such level. 
Market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could affect their NAVs. If the 
NAV of one of our money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per share, such funds could experience significant 
redemptions in assets under management, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm. In 2010 the SEC adopted 
new  rules  governing  U.S.  registered  money  market  funds.  These  rules  are  designed  to  significantly  strengthen  the 
regulatory requirements governing money market funds, increase the resilience of such funds to economic stresses, and 

10 

