serve the needs of local investors. Portfolios may be invested in local, regional or global capital markets. Products may be structured to address location-specific issues, such as regulations, taxation, operational infra-structure, and market liquidity, and client-specific issues, such as investment policy, liability structure and ratings. At year-end 2009, assets managed on behalf of clients domiciled in the United States and Canada (including offshore investors), totaled $2.042 trillion or 61% of total AUM, an increase of $1.070 trillion versus reported AUM at December 31, 2008. On a pro forma combined basis, AUM increased 19% or $322.3 billion, including $62.1 billion of net new business and $264.4 billion from invest-ment performance and market appreciation. Offerings include closed-end funds and iShares traded on domestic stock exchanges, a full range of open-end mutual funds, collective investment funds, common trusts, private funds and separate accounts. Clients invest across the full product range, as evidenced by the year-end mix of 45% in equities, 28% in fixed income, 4% in multi-asset class, 3% in alternatives, 13% in cash management and 7% in advisory mandates. In addition, we have a wide variety  BlackRock manages money for institutional and retail investors worldwide. Our client base is diversi-fied by both geography and client type. We serve clients through 74 offices across four regions: United States and Canada; Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”); Asia Pacific; and Latin America and Iberia. Clients include tax-exempt institutions, such as defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans, charities, foundations and endowments; official institutions, such as central banks, sovereign wealth funds, supranationals and other government entities; taxable institutions, including insurance companies, financial institutions, corporations and third party fund sponsors; and retail and high net worth investors. We also serve both institutional and retail investors who acquire iShares on stock exchanges worldwide.GLOBAL PRESENCEBlackRock serves clients in more than 100 countries through the efforts of professionals located in 24 coun-tries. Our global presence enables us to deliver highly responsive service and to tailor our offerings to best  OUR CLIENTSBLACKROCK  n  10  n   OUR CLIENTS193253T&I_BLACKROCK AR09_NARR_R2.indd   104/20/10   11:31 AM