See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 18, Geographic Information,” for a geographic breakdown 
of our consolidated operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. 
 
Distribution Channels  
 

Channel refers to the distribution channel from which the AUM originated. Retail AUM arose from client investments into funds 
available to the public with shares or units. Institutional AUM originated from individual corporate clients, endowments, foundations, 
government authorities, universities, or charities. Private Wealth Management AUM arose from high net worth client investments.  
 

 

Retail 

 

 

 

Invesco is a significant provider of retail investment solutions to clients in all major markets: Invesco in the U.S., Invesco Trimark 
in Canada, Invesco Perpetual in the U.K., Invesco in Europe and Asia, and Invesco PowerShares (for our ETF products). Additionally, 
Invesco  is  now  also  a  market  leading  sponsor  of  UIT  products  as  a  result  of  the  acquisition  of  Morgan  Stanley’s  retail  asset 
management business. Collectively, the retail investment management teams managed assets of $378.4 billion as of December 31, 
2010. We offer retail products within all of the major asset classes (money market, fixed income, balanced, equity and alternatives). 
Our  retail  products  are  primarily  distributed  through  third-party  financial  intermediaries,  including  traditional  broker-dealers,  fund 
“supermarkets,” retirement platforms, financial advisors, banks, insurance companies and trust companies.  
 

The U.K., U.S. and Canadian retail operations rank among the largest by AUM in their respective markets. As of December 31, 
2010,  Invesco  Perpetual  was  the  No.  1  retail  fund  provider  in  the  U.K.;  Invesco’s  U.S.  retail  business  was  the  9th  largest  non-
proprietary fund complex in the U.S. by long-term assets, including the Invesco Powershares franchise; and Invesco Trimark was the 
9th largest retail fund manager in Canada by long-term assets. Invesco Great Wall, our joint venture in China, was one of the largest 
Sino-foreign  managers  of  equity  products  in  China,  with  AUM  of  approximately  $7.2 billion  as  of  December  31,  2010.  Invesco 
PowerShares  adds  a  leading set of  ETF  products (with  $55.7 billion  in  AUM  and 176  exchange-traded  funds  as of December 31, 
2010) to the extensive choices we make available to our retail investors. We provide our retail clients with one of the industry’s most 
robust and comprehensive product lines.  
 

Institutional 

We provide investment solutions to institutional investors globally, with a major presence in the U.S., U.K., Continental Europe 
and  Asia-Pacific  with  $221.1 billion  in  AUM  as  of  December  31, 2010.  We  offer  a  broad  suite  of  domestic  and  global  products, 
including traditional equities, structured equities, fixed income (including money market funds for institutional clients), real estate, 
private equity, distressed equities, financial structures and absolute return strategies. Regional sales forces distribute our products and 
provide services to clients and intermediaries around the world. We have a diversified client base that includes major public entities, 
corporations,  unions,  non-profit  organizations,  endowments,  foundations,  pension  funds  and  financial  institutions.  Invesco’s 
institutional money market funds serve some of the largest financial institutions and corporations in the world. 
 

Private Wealth Management 

Through  Atlantic  Trust,  Invesco  provides  high-net-worth  individuals  and  their  families  with  a  broad  range  of  personalized  and 
sophisticated wealth management services, including financial counseling, estate planning, asset allocation, investment management 
(including use of third-party managed investment products), private equity, trust, custody and family office services. Atlantic Trust 
also provides investment management services to foundations and endowments. Atlantic Trust obtains new clients through referrals 
from  existing  clients,  recommendations  from  other  professionals  serving  the  high-net-worth  market,  such  as  attorneys  and 
accountants, and from financial intermediaries, such as brokers. Atlantic Trust has offices in 11 U.S. cities and managed $17.0 billion 
as of December 31, 2010. 
 
Employees  

 
As of December 31, 2010, we had 5,617 employees across the globe. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had 4,890 and 5,325 
employees,  respectively.  None  of  our  employees  is  covered  under  collective  bargaining  agreements.  Formal  hiring  of staff  in  our 
Hyderabad,  India,  facility  commenced  with  83  individuals  becoming  our  employees  in  late  2010.  An  additional 474  individuals 
became our employees by the date of this Report. 
 

9 

