 

reduce the risk of runs on these funds. Regulators in the U.S. continue to evaluate whether to propose mandating a variable 
(“floating”)  NAV  for  money  market  funds.  The  company  believes  such  a  change  would  have  significant  adverse 
consequences on the money market funds industry and the short-term credit markets. 

• 

•  Even if legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, 
we  may  need  to  modify  our  strategies,  businesses  or  operations,  and  we  may  incur  increased  capital  requirements  and 
constraints  or  additional  costs  in  order  to  satisfy  new  regulatory  requirements  or  to  compete  in  a  changed  business 
environment. 
In the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic 
failure in the global financial system or additional failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on 
financial  instruments,  we  may  suffer  significant  declines  in  assets  under  management  and  severe  liquidity  or  valuation 
issues  in  the  short-term  sponsored  investment  products  in  which  client  and  company  assets  are  invested,  all  of  which 
would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, 
and  retention  and  ability  to  attract  key  employees.  Additionally,  these  factors  could  impact  our  ability  to  realize  the 
carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. 

 

 

 

 

We may not adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant deterioration in global financial markets. 
 
If we are unable to effect appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner in response to declines in our revenues, or if we are 
otherwise unable to adapt to rapid changes in the global marketplace, our profitability, financial condition and results of operations 
would be adversely affected. 
 

Our revenues would be adversely affected by any reduction in assets under our management as a result of either a decline in 
market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn. 

We  derive  substantially  all  of  our  revenues  from  investment  management  contracts  with  clients.  Under  these  contracts,  the 
investment  management  fees  paid  to  us  are  typically  based  on  the  market  value  of  assets  under  management.  Assets  under 
management  may  decline  for  various  reasons.  For  any  period  in  which  revenues  decline,  our  income  and  operating  margin  may 
decline by  a greater proportion  because  certain  expenses  remain  fixed.  Factors  that could decrease assets  under management  (and 
therefore revenues) include the following: 
 

Declines in the market value of the assets in the funds and accounts managed. These could be caused by price declines in the 
securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which those assets are concentrated. Approximately 48% 
of our total assets under management were invested in equity securities and approximately 52% were invested in fixed income and 
other  investments  at  December  31,  2010.  Our  AUM  as  of  January 31,  2011,  was  $624.3  billion.  We  cannot  predict  whether 
volatility in the markets will result in substantial or sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines 
in market segments in which our assets under management are concentrated. Any of the foregoing could negatively impact our 
revenues, income and operating margin. 

Redemptions  and  other  withdrawals  from,  or  shifting  among,  the  funds  and  accounts  managed.  These  could  be  caused  by 
investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in funds 
and accounts in general or in the market segments on which Invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor 
investment  performance  of  the  funds  and  accounts  managed  by  Invesco;  and  portfolio  risk  characteristics,  which  could  cause 
investors to move assets to other investment managers. Poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to 
result in decreased sales, increased redemptions of fund shares, and the loss of private institutional or individual accounts, with 
corresponding  decreases  in  our  revenues.  Failure  of  our  funds  and  accounts  to  perform  well  could,  therefore,  have  a  material 
adverse effect on us. Furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively 
managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income 
and stable return accounts. Therefore, our revenues may decline if clients shift their investments to lower fee accounts. 

Declines  in  the  value  of  seed  capital  and  partnership  investments.  The  company  has  investments  in  sponsored  investment 
products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including, but not limited to equities, fixed income products, private equity, and 
real estate. Investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading 
blocks, or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. Adverse market conditions may result in the need to 
write down the value of these seed capital and partnership investments. As of December 31, 2010, the company had $198.0 million 
in seed capital and partnership investments.  

11 

